README.md, before:

# TERA Launcher for Linux

A community-created Linux launcher for TERA Online. This project is a **port** (in the loosest terms imaginable) of a closed-source TERA launcher ([original here](https://github.com/justkeepquiet/tera-launcher)) designed to work on retail servers. It utilizes the original launcher's graphical assets to provide a comparable experience for Linux users. By integrating Wine, it allows you to launch the TERA Online game client seamlessly on various Linux distributions.

> **Note about support:** Use the *officially provided launcher for the TERA Online service you are using* **unless** it does not work on Linux. Likewise, do not direct support requests for this launcher to the maintainers of said service.
>
> This is maintained by a single person in their spare time. Expect delays if you inquire about bugs or ask questions, but I will respond as time allows.

> **Disclaimer:** This launcher is in the it-will-probably-work-but-is-quirked-up phase of development. It will continue to see improvements—probably! As this launcher depends on third-party graphical assets and its target TERA server is baked in at compile time, we will *not* be distributing binaries.

> **Not officially supported:** This is **not** an officially supported launcher by the publishers of TERA Online. This software is provided for **educational and convenience purposes only**, and **users must respect TERA Online’s Terms of Service** and any other policies set by the game’s publishers.

---

## Table of Contents

* [Features](#features)
* [Dependencies and Requirements](#dependencies-and-requirements)
* [Docker Installation](#docker-installation)
* [Building](#building)
    * [AppImage Mode (Recommended)](#appimage-mode-recommended)
        * [Optional Build Parameters](#optional-build-parameters)
    * [Standard Build (Option 2)](#standard-build-option-2)
* [Configuring ](#configuring-launcher-configjson)[`launcher-config.json`](#configuring-launcher-configjson)
* [Where the Binaries Go](#where-the-binaries-go)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [License](#license)
* [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

---

## Features

* Seamlessly launches TERA Online on Linux via Wine (see **Usage** for details).
* Imports the original launcher's graphical assets to mimic its look and feel.
* Automatic game client patching and update checks.
* Modular build using CMake and subprojects for easy maintenance.

## Dependencies and Requirements

To build and run this launcher natively, you will need:

* **CMake** (version 3.16 or later)
* A **C compiler** (e.g., `gcc`) and build tools (such as `make`)
* **winegcc** (for building the stub‑launcher component)
* **winetricks**, along with **cabextract**, **unzip** and **p7zip** to support it
* **bsdtar** for game files extraction when torrent download is enabled
* **Python 3** (used by a custom asset‑fetching script)
* **GTK4** development libraries
* **libcurl** development libraries
* **OpenSSL** development libraries
* **SQLite3** development libraries
* **jansson** development libraries
* **libprotobuf‑c** development libraries
* **MiniXML** development libraries
* **libsecret‑1** development libraries (for secure password storage; if no secrets provider is available, password storage will be disabled—see “Password Storage” below)
* **libtorrent‑rasterbar** development libraries (for the built‑in torrent download feature)
* **Boost** development libraries (at least `system` and `filesystem` components)
* An internet connection (for asset fetching)

This has been tested to build on:

* Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
* Fedora 42 Workstation
* Arch Linux

> **Note:** If you only intend to build via **AppImage Mode**, you do **not** need to install these host dependencies locally— the Docker container provides all necessary tools and libraries.

### Ubuntu/Debian‑based

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install build-essential cmake wine libwine-dev \
                 python3 python3-pip python3-setuptools \
                 libgtk-4-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libssl-dev \
                 libsqlite3-dev libjansson-dev libprotobuf-c-dev \
                 libmxml-dev pkg-config git winetricks libarchive-tools \
                 libsecret-1-dev libtorrent-rasterbar-dev \
                 libboost-system-dev libboost-filesystem-dev
```

### Fedora/RHEL‑based

```bash
sudo dnf install gcc gcc-c++ cmake make wine-devel \
                 python3 python3-pip python3-setuptools \
                 gtk4-devel libcurl-devel openssl-devel \
                 sqlite-devel jansson-devel protobuf-c-devel \
                 mxml-devel pkg-config git winetricks libarchive \
                 libsecret-devel libtorrent-rasterbar-devel \
                 boost-devel
```

### Arch Linux

```bash
sudo pacman -S base-devel cmake wine \
             python python-pip winetricks \
             gtk4 curl openssl sqlite jansson \
             protobuf-c mxml pkgconf git  libarchive \
             libsecret libtorrent-rasterbar boost
```

---

## Docker Installation

If you be doing an AppImage build, you will need Docker. Follow the official instructions for your distribution:

* **Ubuntu 24.04**: [https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
* **Fedora**: [https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/)
* **Arch Linux**: [https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Docker](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Docker)

I cannot offer support for installing or configuring Docker itself. **Use online documentation to figure out such things on your own.**

Support for **the build script** and **the build image** and build failures in an otherwise properly configured Docker configuration are however something I can support.

---

## Building

You can build this launcher in **two** ways. **AppImage Mode** is the **recommended** approach for cross‑distro convenience.

### AppImage Mode (Recommended)

> **Requirement:** The resulting AppImage will **not** work on Linux distros whose GLIBC < 2.38.

1. **Clone** the repository as usual:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PopusBenedictus/tera-launcher-for-linux.git
   cd tera-launcher-for-linux
   ```

2. **Enter** the AppImage build directory and build the Docker image:

   ```bash
   cd appimage
   docker build -t tera-builder .
   ```

3. **Generate** the AppImage:

   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it \
     -v "$(pwd)/..:/src" \
     -w /src/appimage \
     tera-builder bash -lc "./build-appimage.sh"
   ```

   After completion, you’ll find `TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage` in the project root.

#### Optional Build Parameters

The `build-appimage.sh` script supports customization via environment variables:

* `REPO_URL` — Repository URL to clone (default: host mount)
* `BRANCH` — Git branch to build (default: `main`)
* `CLONE_REPO` — `1` to clone inside container instead of mounting (default: `0`)
* `GE_PROTON_VERSION` — Proton GE version (default: `GE-Proton10-7`)

**Example:** Build from branch `dev` using GE-Proton v10.8

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  -v "$(pwd)/..:/src" \
  -w /src/appimage \
  -e BRANCH=dev \
  -e GE_PROTON_VERSION=GE-Proton10-8 \
  tera-builder bash -lc "./build-appimage.sh"
```

### Standard Build (Option 2)

Follow the original CMake-based instructions:

1. **Clone** and configure your `launcher-config.json`:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PopusBenedictus/tera-launcher-for-linux.git
   cd tera-launcher-for-linux
   # edit launcher-config.json as needed
   ```

2. **Create** a build directory and run CMake:

   ```bash
   mkdir build && cd build
   cmake ..
   # or with custom config:
   # cmake .. -DCUSTOM_CONFIG_PATH="/path/to/launcher-config.json"
   ```

3. **Build**:

   ```bash
   cmake --build .
   ```

---

## Configuring `launcher-config.json`

Before building, populate **all** values (except `public_launcher_assets`) in your `launcher-config.json` (values shown here are **generic**—replace with your own URLs and paths):

```json
{
  "auth_url":                   "http://your.server/LauncherLoginAction",
  "public_patch_url":           "http://your.server/public/patch",
  "public_launcher_assets_url": "http://your.server/public/launcher/images",
  "server_list_url":            "http://your.server/ServerList?lang=en",

  "wine_prefix_name":      ".yourapp/wineprefix",
  "config_prefix_name":    ".yourapp/config",
  "game_prefix_name":      ".yourapp/files",
  "torrent_download_enabled":    true,
  "torrent_prefix_name":         ".yourapp/torrent",
  "torrent_magnet_link":         "magnet:?xt=urn:btih:YOUR_HASH&dn=Game.zip&tr=udp://tracker.openbittorrent.com:80/announce",
  "torrent_payload_file_name":   "GameFiles.zip",
  "game_lang":                   "EUR",

  "public_launcher_assets": [
    "bg.jpg",
    "btn-auth.png",
    "logo.png",
    "..."
  ],

  "service_name": "Your TERA Server"
}
```

> **Torrent feature note:**
>
> * You **must** supply a **single ZIP file** (as `torrent_payload_file_name`) containing your game files.
> * **Inside that ZIP**, all game files must live under **one top‑level folder** (e.g. `GameFiles/…`) for extraction to work correctly.

> **AppImage feature note:**
>
> When using the AppImage version of the launcher, `game_prefix_name` is ignored; `wine_prefix_name`, `torrent_prefix_name` and `config_prefix_name` are still honored. These are relative paths from your home directory.

---

## Where the Binaries Go

* **Standard build:** Binaries appear in `build/bin`. Copy them next to your game client:

  ```bash
  cp build/bin/* /path/to/TERA_game_folder/
  ```

* **AppImage build:** The single `.AppImage` contains everything. Make it executable and run:

  ```bash
  chmod +x TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
  ./TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
  ```

---

## Usage

### Standard launcher

```bash
./tera_launcher_for_linux
```

### AppImage launcher

```bash
chmod +x TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
./TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
```

---

### Password Storage

By default, this launcher uses **libsecret** to store your account password securely.

* **If no secrets provider is available**, password storage will simply be disabled and you’ll need to re‑enter your password each run.
* **On platforms without a secrets service** (e.g., Steam Deck), you can force plaintext storage by setting:

  ```bash
  export TL4L_ENABLE_PLAINTEXT_PASSWORD_STORAGE=1
  ```

  > ⚠️ **Warning:** Plaintext storage is not secure.
  >
  > **In Steam:** If you add the launcher as a “Non‑Steam Game,” open its **Properties → Launch Options**, and prepend:
  >
  > ```
  > TL4L_ENABLE_PLAINTEXT_PASSWORD_STORAGE=1 %command%
  > ```

You can customize the taskbar icon for the AppImage by replacing `appimage/assets/tera-launcher.png` with a 512×512 PNG of your choice. Do this before building the AppImage.

---

## License

All code in this repo is licensed under the WTFPL license. See `COPYING` and `COPYING.WTFPL` for details.

---

## Disclaimer

**TERA Launcher for Linux** is **not** endorsed by nor affiliated with the publishers of TERA Online. The original proprietary Windows launcher assets remain the property of their respective owners. Use of the game client is subject to the **TERA Online Terms of Service** and **End User License Agreement**. By using this launcher, you agree to abide by all respective legal agreements.

This software is offered purely **for educational purposes** and to give Linux users a convenient way to launch the game. Any misuse or violation of the publisher’s policies is the sole responsibility of the end user.

Commit message:

Update README.md to cover usage of the new TL4L_DISABLE_TORRENT_DOWNLOAD env flag.

README.md, after:

# TERA Launcher for Linux

A community-created Linux launcher for TERA Online. This project is a **port** (in the loosest terms imaginable) of a closed-source TERA launcher ([original here](https://github.com/justkeepquiet/tera-launcher)) designed to work on retail servers. It utilizes the original launcher's graphical assets to provide a comparable experience for Linux users. By integrating Wine, it allows you to launch the TERA Online game client seamlessly on various Linux distributions.

> **Note about support:** Use the *officially provided launcher for the TERA Online service you are using* **unless** it does not work on Linux. Likewise, do not direct support requests for this launcher to the maintainers of said service.
>
> This is maintained by a single person in their spare time. Expect delays if you inquire about bugs or ask questions, but I will respond as time allows.

> **Disclaimer:** This launcher is in the it-will-probably-work-but-is-quirked-up phase of development. It will continue to see improvements—probably! As this launcher depends on third-party graphical assets and its target TERA server is baked in at compile time, we will *not* be distributing binaries.

> **Not officially supported:** This is **not** an officially supported launcher by the publishers of TERA Online. This software is provided for **educational and convenience purposes only**, and **users must respect TERA Online’s Terms of Service** and any other policies set by the game’s publishers.

---

## Table of Contents

* [Features](#features)
* [Dependencies and Requirements](#dependencies-and-requirements)
* [Docker Installation](#docker-installation)
* [Building](#building)
    * [AppImage Mode (Recommended)](#appimage-mode-recommended)
        * [Optional Build Parameters](#optional-build-parameters)
    * [Standard Build (Option 2)](#standard-build-option-2)
* [Configuring ](#configuring-launcher-configjson)[`launcher-config.json`](#configuring-launcher-configjson)
* [Where the Binaries Go](#where-the-binaries-go)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [License](#license)
* [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

---

## Features

* Seamlessly launches TERA Online on Linux via Wine (see **Usage** for details).
* Imports the original launcher's graphical assets to mimic its look and feel.
* Automatic game client patching and update checks.
* Modular build using CMake and subprojects for easy maintenance.

## Dependencies and Requirements

To build and run this launcher natively, you will need:

* **CMake** (version 3.16 or later)
* A **C compiler** (e.g., `gcc`) and build tools (such as `make`)
* **winegcc** (for building the stub‑launcher component)
* **winetricks**, along with **cabextract**, **unzip** and **p7zip** to support it
* **bsdtar** for game files extraction when torrent download is enabled
* **Python 3** (used by a custom asset‑fetching script)
* **GTK4** development libraries
* **libcurl** development libraries
* **OpenSSL** development libraries
* **SQLite3** development libraries
* **jansson** development libraries
* **libprotobuf‑c** development libraries
* **MiniXML** development libraries
* **libsecret‑1** development libraries (for secure password storage; if no secrets provider is available, password storage will be disabled—see “Password Storage” below)
* **libtorrent‑rasterbar** development libraries (for the built‑in torrent download feature)
* **Boost** development libraries (at least `system` and `filesystem` components)
* An internet connection (for asset fetching)

This has been tested to build on:

* Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
* Fedora 42 Workstation
* Arch Linux

> **Note:** If you only intend to build via **AppImage Mode**, you do **not** need to install these host dependencies locally— the Docker container provides all necessary tools and libraries.

### Ubuntu/Debian‑based

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install build-essential cmake wine libwine-dev \
                 python3 python3-pip python3-setuptools \
                 libgtk-4-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libssl-dev \
                 libsqlite3-dev libjansson-dev libprotobuf-c-dev \
                 libmxml-dev pkg-config git winetricks libarchive-tools \
                 libsecret-1-dev libtorrent-rasterbar-dev \
                 libboost-system-dev libboost-filesystem-dev
```

### Fedora/RHEL‑based

```bash
sudo dnf install gcc gcc-c++ cmake make wine-devel \
                 python3 python3-pip python3-setuptools \
                 gtk4-devel libcurl-devel openssl-devel \
                 sqlite-devel jansson-devel protobuf-c-devel \
                 mxml-devel pkg-config git winetricks libarchive \
                 libsecret-devel libtorrent-rasterbar-devel \
                 boost-devel
```

### Arch Linux

```bash
sudo pacman -S base-devel cmake wine \
             python python-pip winetricks \
             gtk4 curl openssl sqlite jansson \
             protobuf-c mxml pkgconf git  libarchive \
             libsecret libtorrent-rasterbar boost
```

---

## Docker Installation

If you be doing an AppImage build, you will need Docker. Follow the official instructions for your distribution:

* **Ubuntu 24.04**: [https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
* **Fedora**: [https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/)
* **Arch Linux**: [https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Docker](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Docker)

I cannot offer support for installing or configuring Docker itself. **Use online documentation to figure out such things on your own.**

Support for **the build script** and **the build image** and build failures in an otherwise properly configured Docker configuration are however something I can support.

---

## Building

You can build this launcher in **two** ways. **AppImage Mode** is the **recommended** approach for cross‑distro convenience.

### AppImage Mode (Recommended)

> **Requirement:** The resulting AppImage will **not** work on Linux distros whose GLIBC < 2.38.

1. **Clone** the repository as usual:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PopusBenedictus/tera-launcher-for-linux.git
   cd tera-launcher-for-linux
   ```

2. **Enter** the AppImage build directory and build the Docker image:

   ```bash
   cd appimage
   docker build -t tera-builder .
   ```

3. **Generate** the AppImage:

   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it \
     -v "$(pwd)/..:/src" \
     -w /src/appimage \
     tera-builder bash -lc "./build-appimage.sh"
   ```

   After completion, you’ll find `TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage` in the project root.

#### Optional Build Parameters

The `build-appimage.sh` script supports customization via environment variables:

* `REPO_URL` — Repository URL to clone (default: host mount)
* `BRANCH` — Git branch to build (default: `main`)
* `CLONE_REPO` — `1` to clone inside container instead of mounting (default: `0`)
* `GE_PROTON_VERSION` — Proton GE version (default: `GE-Proton10-7`)

**Example:** Build from branch `dev` using GE-Proton v10.8

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  -v "$(pwd)/..:/src" \
  -w /src/appimage \
  -e BRANCH=dev \
  -e GE_PROTON_VERSION=GE-Proton10-8 \
  tera-builder bash -lc "./build-appimage.sh"
```

### Standard Build (Option 2)

Follow the original CMake-based instructions:

1. **Clone** and configure your `launcher-config.json`:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PopusBenedictus/tera-launcher-for-linux.git
   cd tera-launcher-for-linux
   # edit launcher-config.json as needed
   ```

2. **Create** a build directory and run CMake:

   ```bash
   mkdir build && cd build
   cmake ..
   # or with custom config:
   # cmake .. -DCUSTOM_CONFIG_PATH="/path/to/launcher-config.json"
   ```

3. **Build**:

   ```bash
   cmake --build .
   ```

---

## Configuring `launcher-config.json`

Before building, populate **all** values (except `public_launcher_assets`) in your `launcher-config.json` (values shown here are **generic**—replace with your own URLs and paths):

```json
{
  "auth_url":                   "http://your.server/LauncherLoginAction",
  "public_patch_url":           "http://your.server/public/patch",
  "public_launcher_assets_url": "http://your.server/public/launcher/images",
  "server_list_url":            "http://your.server/ServerList?lang=en",

  "wine_prefix_name":      ".yourapp/wineprefix",
  "config_prefix_name":    ".yourapp/config",
  "game_prefix_name":      ".yourapp/files",
  "torrent_download_enabled":    true,
  "torrent_prefix_name":         ".yourapp/torrent",
  "torrent_magnet_link":         "magnet:?xt=urn:btih:YOUR_HASH&dn=Game.zip&tr=udp://tracker.openbittorrent.com:80/announce",
  "torrent_payload_file_name":   "GameFiles.zip",
  "game_lang":                   "EUR",

  "public_launcher_assets": [
    "bg.jpg",
    "btn-auth.png",
    "logo.png",
    "..."
  ],

  "service_name": "Your TERA Server"
}
```

> **Torrent feature note:**
>
> * You **must** supply a **single ZIP file** (as `torrent_payload_file_name`) containing your game files.
> * **Inside that ZIP**, all game files must live under **one top‑level folder** (e.g. `GameFiles/…`) for extraction to work correctly.

> **AppImage feature note:**
>
> When using the AppImage version of the launcher, `game_prefix_name` is ignored; `wine_prefix_name`, `torrent_prefix_name` and `config_prefix_name` are still honored. These are relative paths from your home directory.

---

## Where the Binaries Go

* **Standard build:** Binaries appear in `build/bin`. Copy them next to your game client:

  ```bash
  cp build/bin/* /path/to/TERA_game_folder/
  ```

* **AppImage build:** The single `.AppImage` contains everything. Make it executable and run:

  ```bash
  chmod +x TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
  ./TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
  ```

---

## Usage

### Standard launcher

```bash
./tera_launcher_for_linux
```

### AppImage launcher

```bash
chmod +x TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
./TERA_Launcher_for_Linux-x86_64.AppImage
```

---

### How to disable download via Torrent

In some circumstances, torrent downloads may be hindered or blocked on networks hostile to them. To address this, you may use the following ENV toggle to suppress base game file downloads via torrent if the client you are using was configured with it enabled:

```bash
export TL4L_DISABLE_TORRENT_DOWNLOAD=1
```

### Password Storage

By default, this launcher uses **libsecret** to store your account password securely.

* **If no secrets provider is available**, password storage will simply be disabled and you’ll need to re‑enter your password each run.
* **On platforms without a secrets service** (e.g., Steam Deck), you can force plaintext storage by setting:

  ```bash
  export TL4L_ENABLE_PLAINTEXT_PASSWORD_STORAGE=1
  ```

  > ⚠️ **Warning:** Plaintext storage is not secure.
  >
  > **In Steam:** If you add the launcher as a “Non‑Steam Game,” open its **Properties → Launch Options**, and prepend:
  >
  > ```
  > TL4L_ENABLE_PLAINTEXT_PASSWORD_STORAGE=1 %command%
  > ```

You can customize the taskbar icon for the AppImage by replacing `appimage/assets/tera-launcher.png` with a 512×512 PNG of your choice. Do this before building the AppImage.

---

## License

All code in this repo is licensed under the WTFPL license. See `COPYING` and `COPYING.WTFPL` for details.

---

## Disclaimer

**TERA Launcher for Linux** is **not** endorsed by nor affiliated with the publishers of TERA Online. The original proprietary Windows launcher assets remain the property of their respective owners. Use of the game client is subject to the **TERA Online Terms of Service** and **End User License Agreement**. By using this launcher, you agree to abide by all respective legal agreements.

This software is offered purely **for educational purposes** and to give Linux users a convenient way to launch the game. Any misuse or violation of the publisher’s policies is the sole responsibility of the end user.
